#labels Featured
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) are an emerging and very interesting technology applied to 
different applications. They are formed by small, self organized devices that cooperate to
form a large scale network with thousands of nodes covering a large area.
The independent operation of the devices and the self-organization feature of the network present some challenges related to security, particularly regarding the security of the processed and routed data over the network.  

This work aims to contribute to the study of the security conditions and robustness criteria of routing protocols  for WSN. This study must be performed from a systemic model of assessement and from an experimental comparison of protocols, based upon a simulation platform which will enable to assess their operation in closed-to-real operating conditions.  The simulation platform will be equipped with the needed tools and components, in order to enable experimental evaluation of secure and intrusion tolerant
protocol. These protocols combine mechanisms and defensive counter-measures against
attacks on communications, inspired by the Dolev-Yao adversary model. They include also mechanisms to prevent specific routing attacks, which can be triggered from the injection or from the replication of misbehavior of operation, in nodes that have been subjected to intrusion attacks. 

The major contribution of this work is the design of an innovative simulation environment, since some of its features are not found in existing WSN simulation systems. It will provide the opportunity to implement and evaluate routing algorithms that are designed to be secure but for which there are no experimental studies on the real robustness and impact of designed security mechanisms. This evaluation will focus primarily on examining the effectiveness of the provided security mechanisms. Additionally, it will also assess the
impact of these mechanisms in relation to energy consumption, reliability, latency and resistance of
the protocol, regarding the coverage and the scale of the network.